README.md, before:

# Raw Radar ADC Dataset for Automotive Object Detection

A dataset for the 2TX-4RX MMWave Radar with the raw ADC data being recorded. Six main objects - pedestrian, cyclist, car, motorbike, bus, truck - were collected to fit the automotive object detection scenario. 

<p align="center"> <img src='docs/automotive_tease.png' align="center" height="300px"> </p>

## Citations

> [**RAMP-CNN: A Novel Neural Network for Enhanced Automotive Radar Object Recognition**](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.08981.pdf),            
> Xiangyu Gao, Guanbin Xing, Sumit Roy, and Hui Liu, <br/>
> *arXiv technical report* ([arXiv 2011.08981](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.08981))  

    @ARTICLE{9249018,  author={Gao, Xiangyu and Xing, Guanbin and Roy, Sumit and Liu, Hui},  
        journal={IEEE Sensors Journal},   
        title={RAMP-CNN: A Novel Neural Network for Enhanced Automotive Radar Object Recognition},   
        year={2021},  volume={21},  number={4},  pages={5119-5132},  doi={10.1109/JSEN.2020.3036047}}

> [**Raw ADC Data of 77GHz MMWave radar for Automotive Object Detection**](https://ieee-dataport.org/documents/raw-adc-data-77ghz-mmwave-radar-automotive-object-detection),            
> Xiangyu Gao, Youchen Luo, Guanbin Xing, Sumit Roy, Hui Liu, <br/>
> *IEEE Dataport*

    @data{xm40-jx59-22, doi = {10.21227/xm40-jx59}, url = {https://dx.doi.org/10.21227/xm40-jx59},
        author = {Gao, Xiangyu and Luo, Youchen and Xing, Guanbin and Roy, Sumit and Liu, Hui},
        publisher = {IEEE Dataport},
        title = {Raw ADC Data of 77GHz MMWave radar for Automotive Object Detection},
        year = {2022} }
    
    

## Update

***(April 28, 2023) Update the description for labels.***

***(Dec. 11, 2022) Initial release of dataset and tools.***

## Introduction
In this dataset, we provided the raw **analog-to-digital-converter** (ADC) data of a **77GHz mmwave** radar for the automotive object detection scenario. The overall dataset contains approximately **19800** frames of radar data as well as synchronized camera images and labels. For each radar frame, its raw data has **_4 dimensions: samples (fast time), chirps (slow time), transmitters, and receivers_**. The experiment radar was assembled from the **TI AWR 1843** board, with 2 horizontal transmit antennas and 4 receive antennas. With **time-division multiplexing** on all transmitters, it can form a 1D-MIMO virtual array with 8 elements. 

The data collection was done on the **campus, road, and parking lot** during the daytime, with the focus of capturing the data for **_six main objects: pedestrian, cyclist, car, motorbike, bus, truck_**. The collected objects can be either **moving (mostly)** or **static**. A single data collection run consisted of multiple objects listed above moving or being static at a normal speed for 30 seconds in front of the testbed. More information in terms of dataset structure, format, tools, and radar configuration was described below.

## Download

Download the dataset from the google drive link:
```
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QgjwdQpY96NAVGdvjjFrXLhb48o15EO_/view?usp=share_link
``` 
Or from IEEE Dataport:
```
https://ieee-dataport.org/documents/raw-adc-data-77ghz-mmwave-radar-automotive-object-detection
```

## Dataset Structure and Format

The dataset consists of multiple sequences, e.g., "2019_04_09_bms1000", "2019_04_09_cms1000". Under each sequence folder, there exists the image folder *"images_0"*, and radar data folder *"radar_raw_frame"*, and label folder *"text_labels"*.

The overall dataset structure is presented as below.

    Automotive
    ---2019_04_09_bms1000
       ---images_0
       ---radar_raw_frame
       ---text_labels
    ---2019_04_09_cms1000
       ......
       
The "radar_raw_frame" folder contains **raw ADC radar data in _.mat_ format**, and "images_0" folder contains **camera images in _.jpg_ format**, and the "text_labels" contains **label files for each frame in _.csv_ format**. The detailed data format is explained below.

**You should match the radar frame, camera image, and labels based on their filenames.** There is some redundant data and you can simply disregard it.

### Radar ADC Data

*  For each radar frame, its raw data (*.mat) has **4 dimension**: 
        
        samples (128), chirps (255), receivers (4), transmitters (2). 

    All transmitters were arranged with *time-division multiplexing* (TDM), i.e., send chirp signals one by one. The example frame structure is shown below:
<p align="center"> <img src='docs/frame_structure.png' align="center" height="200px"> </p>

* The placement of 2 transmitters and 4 receivers was plotted in the left figure below, from the [TI documentation](https://www.ti.com/lit/an/swra554a/swra554a.pdf). Through TDM, it forms a 1 by 8 MIMO array as shown in the right figure below:
<p align="center"> <img src='docs/mimo.png' align="center" height="180px"> </p>

* All radar configurations are included in [config](config.py).

### Camera Image

*  The camera image for each frame is 1440x1080 pixels.

### Labels

*  Each *.csv file include the labels for a frame, with **each row of it in format of _[uid, class, px, py, wid, len]_**, they are,  
        
        uid: the unique tracking id of objects in this sequence
        class: the class id of objects, with the id number represented in label map, 
        px: x-axis center of bounding box in meters within the range of [-20m, 20m]
        py: y-axis center of bounding box in meters within the range of [1m, 24m]
        wid: width of bounding box in meters (corresponding to x-axis)
        len: lengt of bounding box in meters (corresponding to y-axis)
        
        The mapping of class id to objects is:
        label_map = {0: 'person',
                     2: 'car',
                     3: 'motorbike',
                     5: 'bus',
                     7: 'truck',
                     80: 'cyclist',
                     }

Note that there might be a few special cases where the px, py values exceed the provided limit and you may just wanna ignore them or do the clipping.
## Dataset Tools

### Software Requirement and Installation

Python 3.6 (please refer to [INSTALL](requirements.txt) to set up libraries.)

Under prepare...

## License

This tool is released under MIT license (see [LICENSE](LICENSE)).

## Acknowledgement
This project was supported by the [FUNLAB](https://depts.washington.edu/funlab/), [University of Washington](http://www.washington.edu/), and [Silkwave Holdings](https://silkwave.com.hk/). This project is not possible without multiple great open-source codebases. We list some notable examples below.

* [microDoppler](https://github.com/Xiangyu-Gao/mmWave-radar-signal-processing-and-microDoppler-classification)
* [ramp-cnn](https://github.com/Xiangyu-Gao/Radar-multiple-perspective-object-detection)

Commit message:

Update README.md - fix google drive download link

README.md, after:

# Raw Radar ADC Dataset for Automotive Object Detection

A dataset for the 2TX-4RX MMWave Radar with the raw ADC data being recorded. Six main objects - pedestrian, cyclist, car, motorbike, bus, truck - were collected to fit the automotive object detection scenario. 

<p align="center"> <img src='docs/automotive_tease.png' align="center" height="300px"> </p>

## Citations

> [**RAMP-CNN: A Novel Neural Network for Enhanced Automotive Radar Object Recognition**](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.08981.pdf),            
> Xiangyu Gao, Guanbin Xing, Sumit Roy, and Hui Liu, <br/>
> *arXiv technical report* ([arXiv 2011.08981](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.08981))  

    @ARTICLE{9249018,  author={Gao, Xiangyu and Xing, Guanbin and Roy, Sumit and Liu, Hui},  
        journal={IEEE Sensors Journal},   
        title={RAMP-CNN: A Novel Neural Network for Enhanced Automotive Radar Object Recognition},   
        year={2021},  volume={21},  number={4},  pages={5119-5132},  doi={10.1109/JSEN.2020.3036047}}

> [**Raw ADC Data of 77GHz MMWave radar for Automotive Object Detection**](https://ieee-dataport.org/documents/raw-adc-data-77ghz-mmwave-radar-automotive-object-detection),            
> Xiangyu Gao, Youchen Luo, Guanbin Xing, Sumit Roy, Hui Liu, <br/>
> *IEEE Dataport*

    @data{xm40-jx59-22, doi = {10.21227/xm40-jx59}, url = {https://dx.doi.org/10.21227/xm40-jx59},
        author = {Gao, Xiangyu and Luo, Youchen and Xing, Guanbin and Roy, Sumit and Liu, Hui},
        publisher = {IEEE Dataport},
        title = {Raw ADC Data of 77GHz MMWave radar for Automotive Object Detection},
        year = {2022} }
    
    

## Update

***(May 26, 2025) The google drive download link is fixed.***

***(April 28, 2023) Update the description for labels.***

***(Dec. 11, 2022) Initial release of dataset and tools.***

## Introduction
In this dataset, we provided the raw **analog-to-digital-converter** (ADC) data of a **77GHz mmwave** radar for the automotive object detection scenario. The overall dataset contains approximately **19800** frames of radar data as well as synchronized camera images and labels. For each radar frame, its raw data has **_4 dimensions: samples (fast time), chirps (slow time), transmitters, and receivers_**. The experiment radar was assembled from the **TI AWR 1843** board, with 2 horizontal transmit antennas and 4 receive antennas. With **time-division multiplexing** on all transmitters, it can form a 1D-MIMO virtual array with 8 elements. 

The data collection was done on the **campus, road, and parking lot** during the daytime, with the focus of capturing the data for **_six main objects: pedestrian, cyclist, car, motorbike, bus, truck_**. The collected objects can be either **moving (mostly)** or **static**. A single data collection run consisted of multiple objects listed above moving or being static at a normal speed for 30 seconds in front of the testbed. More information in terms of dataset structure, format, tools, and radar configuration was described below.

## Download

Download the dataset from the google drive link:
```
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OfqXXgoFg6xRYZkRqPJye4cQ29Fomh3l/view?usp=sharing
``` 
Or from IEEE Dataport:
```
https://ieee-dataport.org/documents/raw-adc-data-77ghz-mmwave-radar-automotive-object-detection
```

## Dataset Structure and Format

The dataset consists of multiple sequences, e.g., "2019_04_09_bms1000", "2019_04_09_cms1000". Under each sequence folder, there exists the image folder *"images_0"*, and radar data folder *"radar_raw_frame"*, and label folder *"text_labels"*.

The overall dataset structure is presented as below.

    Automotive
    ---2019_04_09_bms1000
       ---images_0
       ---radar_raw_frame
       ---text_labels
    ---2019_04_09_cms1000
       ......
       
The "radar_raw_frame" folder contains **raw ADC radar data in _.mat_ format**, and "images_0" folder contains **camera images in _.jpg_ format**, and the "text_labels" contains **label files for each frame in _.csv_ format**. The detailed data format is explained below.

**You should match the radar frame, camera image, and labels based on their filenames.** There is some redundant data and you can simply disregard it.

### Radar ADC Data

*  For each radar frame, its raw data (*.mat) has **4 dimension**: 
        
        samples (128), chirps (255), receivers (4), transmitters (2). 

    All transmitters were arranged with *time-division multiplexing* (TDM), i.e., send chirp signals one by one. The example frame structure is shown below:
<p align="center"> <img src='docs/frame_structure.png' align="center" height="200px"> </p>

* The placement of 2 transmitters and 4 receivers was plotted in the left figure below, from the [TI documentation](https://www.ti.com/lit/an/swra554a/swra554a.pdf). Through TDM, it forms a 1 by 8 MIMO array as shown in the right figure below:
<p align="center"> <img src='docs/mimo.png' align="center" height="180px"> </p>

* All radar configurations are included in [config](config.py).

### Camera Image

*  The camera image for each frame is 1440x1080 pixels.

### Labels

*  Each *.csv file include the labels for a frame, with **each row of it in format of _[uid, class, px, py, wid, len]_**, they are,  
        
        uid: the unique tracking id of objects in this sequence
        class: the class id of objects, with the id number represented in label map, 
        px: x-axis center of bounding box in meters within the range of [-20m, 20m]
        py: y-axis center of bounding box in meters within the range of [1m, 24m]
        wid: width of bounding box in meters (corresponding to x-axis)
        len: lengt of bounding box in meters (corresponding to y-axis)
        
        The mapping of class id to objects is:
        label_map = {0: 'person',
                     2: 'car',
                     3: 'motorbike',
                     5: 'bus',
                     7: 'truck',
                     80: 'cyclist',
                     }

Note that there might be a few special cases where the px, py values exceed the provided limit and you may just wanna ignore them or do the clipping.
## Dataset Tools

### Software Requirement and Installation

Python 3.6 (please refer to [INSTALL](requirements.txt) to set up libraries.)

Under prepare...

## License

This tool is released under MIT license (see [LICENSE](LICENSE)).

## Acknowledgement
This project was supported by the [FUNLAB](https://depts.washington.edu/funlab/), [University of Washington](http://www.washington.edu/), and [Silkwave Holdings](https://silkwave.com.hk/). This project is not possible without multiple great open-source codebases. We list some notable examples below.

* [microDoppler](https://github.com/Xiangyu-Gao/mmWave-radar-signal-processing-and-microDoppler-classification)
* [ramp-cnn](https://github.com/Xiangyu-Gao/Radar-multiple-perspective-object-detection)
